---
date: 2007-05-01T14:00:00Z
title: C3 is no more
url: /2007/05/01/c3-is-no-more/
wordpress_id: 24
wordpress_url: /bits/?p=24
categories:
- "personal"
tags:
- "kent"
- "c3"
---

I am sad, I am mad and I am pissed. We got a letter today from Kent's school --was Parkway Preparatory School, later changed to C3 School-- stating that the school is closing its doors.

> Unfortunately, our continuing analysis and review of the Church's financial obligations has led us to the conclusion that continued operation of the school is not the best use of Church resources. Our decision is also based in part on the projected enrollment for next school year. After much thought and prayer, the Board of Directors has decided to close the school as of the end of this current school year.

We have learned that the Church's land is being sold to a housing developer. If this is true, I would have expected a more forthcoming letter, one closer to the truth. After all, it is a Christian School, part of a Baptist Church. They should be truthful, they should be better. I would also have wanted a bit more time, to search and register Kent in another school.

Not long ago the Church changed it's name from "Parkway Baptist Church" to "<a href="http://www.c3orlando.com/">C3</a>". That cryptic name means "Connecting the Community with Christ". The church sent letters/cards via mail to close-by neighborhoods announcing the name change, and inviting people to attend to it. Is it selling out and abandoning the community another way to "connect" with it? I don't think so.

Yes, I am pissed and mad. Kent was looking so much forward to his first grade, with his friends and teachers he had already met and liked. Now the dreams of a little boy are shattered.

> <strong><sup>15</sup></strong> People were also bringing babies to Jesus to have him touch them. When the disciples saw this, they rebuked them.  <strong><sup>16</sup></strong> But Jesus called the children to him and said, "Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.  <strong><sup>17</sup></strong> I tell you the truth, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it." -- <a href="http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Luke%2018:15-17&version=31">Luke 18:15-17</a>

This post is full of conjectures. I really would like to know everything about what's happening. I think we deserve it. The truth. And why.

<strong class="note_update">Update <span class="note_update_timestamp">07 Dec 2007</span></strong>

Yes, [they sold it](/2007/12/07/yes-they-sold-it/ "Yes, they sold it").